Then there is no meditations. Always in the teaching I say that when we mix up the wound, that will
mix up the meditations, and that will mix up also our conduct which will be carrying the med
itations, and then the result will be deleted.
So therefore, the wound is so important.
The first is a wound. Here too, in this Sherik Dorje Numentantra also really explains how the wound
is forced.
Here what the great Samyantabar Buddha said here.
First he said, "Dissented all the creating monach as the sovereign of your three doors." That's a
translate. That means now we have to explore what is wound.
And that's now when we establish the wound, that is, there are two ways to establish the wound.
An analytic way of establishing. Even this teaching is very, very direct, very kind of
straightforward, easy way to approach the wound.
But still we need analytic, analyzing. Therefore he said, "Tak" means descending, discern.
It means exactly, discern. You have to discern. Who is going to discern? Our mind is going to
discern.
Because I often said, and it's true, this practice meditation of the wound is not believing.
Believing. You're going to really find, find and exaggerate things. So you have some trust. We need
trust.
This trust is not, "Oh, I trust, I believe." This is not believing trust.
This is trust we develop by discern or analyzing. That is what we need.
So now here, he said, he analyzed within three doors. Three doors.
Because, all created monarchs, all created monarchs, so that means all created monarchs and as well
as three doors we're going to examine.
And what is it all created, all created monarchs? It's synonym for the mind. Mind is all created.
He said, "No one is according Buddhism, creators, except our mind. Each of our mind is created in
each of our environments."
Our mind is everything. It really is. And that's it. Many times we heard. You heard. And also I
make it many times.
But the teaching says so clearly, so clearly everywhere. And particularly from the mind only
schools, Mahayana school, all the way to Vaidyana teaching, there is no difference. Mind created
everything. Mind created everything.
So clearly, I can't say that this thing by great master Mookima. What he said. He said, "The origin
and nature of the mind is luminosity, status.
It's the tathaga, the garba. It's clay, view, pristine, brilliant, openness. But then our ignorance
almost hindered our display of the nature.
Then we started grasping and clinging. Then all the habit patterns developed. Those habit patterns
are three different habit patterns.
Habit pattern of the universe, habit pattern of the usage, habit pattern of each of our bodies, all
object and subject and our consciousness, all that habit patterns developed.
And then it's okay. It's like the rims. Everything developed. One up and up. So this is reality.
Reality really is not something that existed.
Solid. Solid existed. But illusory is existed. And for that reason, again great master Mookima said
,
"Even though they are not truly existing, but through the delusion of the ignorance, appearing
those are magically at interdependent levels."
Interdependent. They're not going just one, only one course. So many factors, so many causes are
arising those, even though they are not exactly reality.
It's called, that's what Iraq is called, supporting each other, that magical is called, inter
dependent coordination.
And how long it is lost? Again great master Mookima said, "It will last until duality is ended."
Each of our dualities ended. As long as we have the duality, that much long we have the karma.
We have all these good and bad things. For that reason, we always careful, thoughtful with our
karma, our activities.
Those are really in the teaching by great master Mookima said.
So this is, now the mind creates everything. So mind is the principle. Mind is the principle.
And now we think, now we think, so let's go somewhere. And I'm sure it's put not here.
We put nice put nots there, but many of you know already I'm there, go somewhere.
But I tell again, there's three doors. Three doors are the body, speech, and the mind.
Those are the verbal, those are in Buddhism three doors. Why is called door or why is metaphor door
?
Because these three are the entrance of the good and bad, bad things.
Or good karma, bad karma, and neutral is coming through this. Therefore, it is named as three doors
.
So now we think of this. Mind is the principle. Mind is the here, see.
Monarch as sovereign, sovereign or the king, or queen. Mind is the bubbles. And mind is ruling the
three doors.
Mind is ruling the mind. Mind is ruling the speech. Mind is ruling the body.
So now really mind is everything. And mind as take the credentials as mind create everything,
environment everything.
So now this, when we doing this, this is called very simple way and a life way. So where is this
mind?
That's what the example. We always think our mind is with us. It's true. Our mind is with us.
Each of our mind is with us. So where is our mind? Mind.
This mind share with us, with body. Body and mind are same. Speech and verbal and mind are same.
What is this? Mind is where? If body and mind are same, that cannot be because we didn't have this
body.
A border is our edge. We didn't have the body about seven years ago, or ten years ago, probably
years ago.
So where is mind? Mind. So that means mind and body are not same.
So now mind is residing, roughly we think mind is residing in the body. But where is really now?
Now we're looking carefully. This is the endless getting by ourself, by our own intelligence.
So take, look, where is mind? Mind, from top of our head all the way to our feet. Where is mind?
Trying really big point. Exactly. And many times, of course, we say our mind is in the brain.
And many times also in Buddhism, say it in the heart. But where? Where it is?
And if there's really a mind in the brain, I'm sure it's more scientific or laboratory, well, fine.
But nobody sees anything they say. And then in the heart also there's nothing we can find.
So mind is really not at all in a way. But yet we have the mind. Is the mind outside the body? No.
Even in that we won't believe. So inside some way have to be. But it's not there.
So that means mind is not really with the body exactly. Its location is free.
Place is absence of the mind in any of those, in a way. So that is, so this means mind and body are
not same.
Then we think of our verbal communication, verbal speeches. Where is our mind?
Where are we talking? With this sound? With that? And which part? If the sound we can find, sound
is going out.
Sound can be recorded. Is the mind can be recorded? No. I don't understand.
So this is a true Emma's gathering. It's not just a believing. We're trying to really find a fact,
exactly as it is.
So mind is not the same with the verbal. So then now where is this mind?
Now among these three things, boarding, speech, mind, sit.
So we analyze, really, those are many times you can analyze in many different ways.
The teachings explain in so detail and so thoroughly, all part of the body is with bone, it has
muscles.
Our mind is with bone, with muscle, with blood, with flake, with skin. And each of those is not.
Really mind is lovely. And that way, also examined in the Madhavaka teachings, for example, ego-cle
aning.
We can say ego is something so important. That's the principle. Where is that "I"? That's something
.
It's not anywhere. Same way we analyze the mind. There is no "I" at all or ego we can find, any
places.
Out, in, any place. So that is the, we said, we established the emptiness of the mind in the body.
And then we also analyze with the speech. And then we live down, find the speech is free from mind.
There is no one. It's completely different. It's not the mind and the speech are the same.
The body and the speech are the same. The body and the mind are the same. It's completely different
.
Now, then where is the mind? Now we single out the mind. Mind. So then we find the mind out. Where
is the mind?
Those are then in the teaching here, explaining more, more, more, and then we can go tomorrow too.
We continue now. But this is called establishing the will. Establishing the will, that means
establishing,
exactly where things are. That means you're establishing, trusting and bringing knowledge up,
but exactly where things are, where things. At this time, we're going to meditate with the mind,
the nature of the mind.
So therefore, it's so important. And also according to the teaching, the mind is everything.
When we discover, when we uproot the mind, mind, we're almost uprooting samsara too.
Samsara is the one. And if we really, truly uproot the mind, we're uprooting all the emotions.
Anger, and jealous, heavy, told, all those we are uprooting. And for that reason,
the great master, Shabhwa Swaroora, knew he said that. He said, if you like to cut the tree,
cutting leaves and the limbs and the branches, that is not going to work.
If you cut the tree from the root, it will destroy everything. All the leaves and the branches,
everything will be gone.
Similarly, mind is the root of everything. Therefore, we are uprooting.
We're establishing the true will, will from the mind. Then it's a display.
When you are establishing that quality, then it's a display of the mind and display for every
environment.
Then it's empty, empty too. But yet, of course, it's not going to,
it's not going to stop functioning or doing things. It's not going to stop at all.
But we see the magic display of the way things are. Things are.
So that is really my talk.
So then there are more details here now. When we separate it from the mind, from the three doors of
the body and the rubble,
and then more examining from the mind here, more explaining here, so then we go to more.
Thank you everyone again.